SSH access to Azure Arc-enabled servers (#1162)
microsoft/azure_arc: docs/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/day2/arc_ssh/_index.md

---
type: docs

> title: "SSH Access"
> linkTitle: "SSH Access"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: "Server SSH Access"
linkTitle: "Server SSH Access"
```

- **[AWS Ubuntu EC2 instance](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/aws/aws_terraform_ubuntu/)**
- **[AWS Amazon Linux 2 EC2 instance](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/aws/aws_terraform_al2/)**
- **[Azure Ubuntu VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/azure/azure_arm_template_linux/)**
- **[Azure Windows VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/azure/azure_arm_template_win/)**
- **[VMware vSphere Ubuntu VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vmware/vmware_terraform_ubuntu/)**
- **[VMware vSphere Windows Server VM](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vmware/vmware_terraform_winsrv/)**
- **[Vagrant Ubuntu box](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vagrant/local_vagrant_ubuntu/)**
- **[Vagrant Windows box](https://azurearcjumpstart.io/azure_arc_jumpstart/azure_arc_servers/vagrant/local_vagrant_windows/)**

## Prerequisites

- Clone the Azure Arc Jumpstart repository

    ```shell
    git clone https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc.git
    ```

> - [Install or update Azure CLI](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Azure CLI should be running version 1.1.0** or later. Use ```az --version``` to check your current installed version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Install or update Azure CLI to version 2.25.0 and above](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/install-azure-cli?view=azure-cli-latest). Use the below command to check your current installed version.
```

  - Microsoft.HybridConnectivity

      ```shell
      az provider register --namespace 'Microsoft.HybridConnectivity'
      ```

      You can monitor the registration process with the following commands:

      ```shell
      az provider show --namespace 'Microsoft.HybridConnectivity'
      ```

## Automation Flow

For you to get familiar with the automation and deployment flow, below is an explanation.

1. User is editing the shell script (1-time edit) environment variables section. These environment values are being used throughout the deployment.

2. User runs the shell script. The script will:

    - Add the required CLI extensions
    - Create the default connectivity endpoint

3. User connects to the Arc-enabled server and enables connections on the hybrid agent.

4. User tests SSH connection.

## Deployment

- To run the automation, navigate to the [deployment folder](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/tree/main/azure_arc_servers_jumpstart/ssh) and edit the environment section of the [shell script](https://github.com/microsoft/azure_arc/tree/main/azure_arc_servers_jumpstart/ssh/enable_ssh.sh)

>   - _`subscription`_: your Azure subscription ID.
>   - _`resourcegroup`_: Resource Group where your Azure Arc-enabled server is registered to.
>   - _`arc_server`_: Name of your Azure Arc-enabled server as it is shown in the Azure Portal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - _`subscription`_: your Azure subscription ID.
  - _`resourceGroup`_: Resource Group where your Azure Arc-enabled server is registered to.
  - _`arcServer`_: Name of your Azure Arc-enabled server as it is shown in the Azure Portal.
```

    ![Parameters](./01.png)

- From the deployment folder run the below command:

  ```shell
    . ./enable_ssh.sh
  ```

  > **NOTE: The extra dot is due to the script having an _export_ function and needs to have the vars exported in the same shell session as the other commands.**

    ![Script's output](./02.png)

> - Now it is necessary to connect to the Azure Arc-enabled server and allow connections on the Connected Machine agent, to do that connect to the server and open an administrative session and run the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is required to connect to the Azure Arc-enabled server for allowing connectivity to the Connected Machine agent. To do that, connect to the server and open an administrative session and run the below command.
```

  ```shell
    azcmagent config set incomingconnections.ports 22
  ```

    ![Set Agents incomming connections](./03.png)

## SSH connection test

> - Once the script has finished its run, you should be able to SSH to the Azure Arc-enabled server by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Once the script has finished its run, you should be able to connect via SSH to the Azure Arc-enabled server by running:
```

  ```shell
    az ssh arc --resource-group <resource_group> --name <arc_enabled_server> --local-user <username>
  ```

    ![Test SSH connection](./04.png)

>   > **NOTE: if your Arc-enabled server uses other authentication methods make sure to review the [az ssh arc documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/ssh?view=azure-cli-latest#az-ssh-arc)**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > **NOTE: if your Arc-enabled server uses other authentication methods make sure to review the [az ssh arc documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/cli/azure/ssh?view=azure-cli-latest#az-ssh-arc)**
```

## Cleanup

> To disable SSH access to an Azure Arc-enabled server, run the the command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable SSH access to an Azure Arc-enabled server, run the below command.
```

  ```shell
  az rest --method delete --uri https://management.azure.com/subscriptions/<subscription>/resourceGroups/<resourcegroup>/providers/Microsoft.HybridCompute/machines/<arc enabled server name>/providers/Microsoft.HybridConnectivity/endpoints/default?api-version=2021-10-06-preview
  ```

> On the Azure Arc enabled-server's operating system, remove the configured port by running the command below on the VM:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Azure Arc enabled-server's operating system, remove the configured port by running the below command on the server:
```
